In 2015, I got my start working in web development.
After just a few months of studying the backend framework, Ruby on Rails,
I got my first job working with Ruby on Rails full-time.
Back then I was quite directionless when it came to where I wanted to take
my career and I took the first job that was offered to me.
Long story short, the job didn't work out and I ended up
pivoting into the popular blogging platform in CMS WordPress.
While WordPress was a good platform to learn in order to gain freelance work,
it was still quite a broad niche and I didn't
have a clear idea of the audience I served within it.
Then in 2019, I was offered the opportunity to work with
an agency that specialized in Shopify as a front end web developer.
While working for this agency,
I learned as much as I could about this specialized area of web development,
while also learning about how it is to work in a digital agency.
When I left that agency at the end of the year,
I had found a new niche;
providing specialist Shopify web development services to agencies.
Now, obviously, I've made a long story short here,
but the key lessons I feel are as follows.
Number one, it might take some time before you find your niche.
Notice how I'm using the word finding rather than deciding on your niche.
As oftentimes, you need to build out experience and try
a few things before you find a niche that works for you.
Number two, following on from that idea of building experience,
you might want to take up an opportunity to grow into your niche.
For me that meant taking a job where I would automatically gain the skills and
experience that I could then directly channel
into working with businesses on a freelance basis.
For you, you might want to sign up for a specialized training program or intern with
an individual or small business where you'll get real industry experience.
Now, of course, if you're
a particularly confident person and you already
have a clear idea of the niche you want to get into,
then you can always disregard these lessons.
These are not prerequisites for getting started in a niche.
You don't necessarily need to take your time with this,
but I think for the majority of us,
finding a niche is typically more of an organic process.
You might have to try out a bunch of different niches
before settling on something that works for you long-term.
Of course, you don't have to stick to any single niche for the entirety of your career,
just like I might switch niches over the course of my career as well.
Something else I want to make clear here is that
finding your niche doesn't have to be an accidental thing.
In my own journey,
I did take steps to move in the direction of
what I determined would be a good niche to get into.
I had a plan upfront to build experience in that area
first before having the confidence and skills to go into freelance full time.
With your own career you might want to do the same.
You might want to create a plan for gaining experience in a particular field which you
think has an audience of clients to whom you can serve on a freelance basis.
Your niche is not set in stone,
but I do recommend that you have a particular niche in mind
before continuing with the lessons in this class.
Everything else we'll learn in the following lessons is going to be about
taking this niche and applying it specifically to LinkedIn.
Please don't skip this step.
Make sure you have a clear idea of the service you provide and
the specific audience you provide it to and when you're ready,
I'll see you in the next video.